#labels paypal
= Introduction =

This package provides neat and simple method to validate the paid result with [https://www.paypal.com/ipn Paypal IPN]. It's NOT intended to make the paypal integration "plug 'n' play". It still requires the developer to understand the [https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=p/dmo/demo_ipn_1-outside Paypal Process] and know the [https://cms.paypal.com/us/cgi-bin/?cmd=_render-content&content_ID=developer/e_howto_html_Appx_websitestandard_htmlvariables HTML Variables] you want/need to pass to paypal to achieve what you want.

= Details =

To submit an order to paypal, have your order form POST to a file with:
{{{
$p = new paypal_class;
$p->add_field('business', 'somebody@domain.com');
$p->add_field('first_name', $_POST['first_name']);
//....add all your fields in the same manor
$p->submit_paypal_post();
}}}

To process an IPN, have your IPN processing file contain:
{{{
$p = new paypal_class;
if ($p->validate_ipn()) {
	//....IPN is verified.  Details are in the ipn_data() array
}
$p->ipn_status //get the ipn validation status detial.
}}}

=Paypal Manual=
[https://cms.paypal.com/us/cgi-bin/?cmd=_render-content&content_ID=developer/howto_html_landing Integrating Using HTML]: How to integrate Paypal using simple html and receive messages when payments are made on your website or e-commerce solution using IPN. 

[https://www.paypalobjects.com/WEBSCR-580-20090616-1/en_US/pdf/PP_OrderManagement_IntegrationGuide.pdf Instant Payment Notification (IPN) Manual]: This gives you all the information you need including the fields you can pass to paypal (using add_field() with this class) as well as all the fields that are returned in an IPN post (stored in the ipn_data() array in this class).  It also diagrams the entire transaction process.

[https://cms.paypal.com/us/cgi-bin/?cmd=_render-content&content_ID=developer/e_howto_html_IPNandPDTVariables IPN Variables]: Paypal returns related variables for each kind of IPN or PDT message. 